Restructure output folder (#102)
nf-core/pixelator: docs/output.md

### Preprocessing

The preprocessing step uses `pixelator single-cell amplicon` to create full-length amplicon sequences from both single-end and paired-end data.

> It returns a single fastq file per sample containing fixed length amplicons.

Reviewer: FASTQ is all capitals a couple of paragraphs after:
```suggestion
It returns a single FASTQ file per sample containing fixed length amplicons.
```

</details>

### Duplicate removal and error correction

This step uses the `pixelator single-cell collapse` command.

> The `collapse` command removes duplicate reads and performs error correction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `collapse` command removes duplicate reads and performs error correction, resulting in the molecules that have been sampled in the experiment.
```

Author: I find that this additional does not addition does not add much information and makes it even a bit less clear.
Can we leave it as it was?

Reviewer: I think my issue here is that we introduce `collapse` but we don't mention that the main purpose of this step is to discover molecules, not to remove duplicate reads and perform error molecules. Therefore we use the UPI and UMI (in the sentence after).

This is achieved using the unique pixel identifier and unique molecular identifier sequences to check for
uniqueness, collapse and compute a read count. The command generates a QC report in JSON format.
Errors are allowed when collapsing reads if `--algorithm` is set to `adjacency` (this is the default option).

> The output format of this command is a parquet file containing deduplicated and error-corrected reads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output format of this command is a parquet file containing deduplicated and error-corrected molecules.
```

> The collapsed reads are intermediate and by default not placed in the output folder kept in the final files delivered to users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The collapsed reads are intermediate and by default not placed in the output folder with the final files delivered to users.
```

</details>

### Compute connected components

This step uses the `pixelator single-cell graph` command.

> The input is the edge list parquet file generated in the collapse step and after filtering it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The input is the molecule list parquet file generated in the collapse step and after filtering it
```

Reviewer: Sounds good

> by count (`--graph_min_count`), the connected components of the graph (graphs) are computed and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by count (`--graph_min_count`). These molecules will form the edges of the connected components of the graph. When graphs are computed and identified,
```

Author: The `and after filtering it by count` section does not make sense anymore with the edits.
Could you add the complete paragraph in one suggestion?

Reviewer: ```
The input is the edge list parquet file generated in the collapse step. These molecules are filtered by count (`--graph_min_count`) to form the edges of the connected components of the graph. When graphs are computed and identified, their ID names are added back to the edge list in a column called "component".
```

> added to the edge list in a column called "component".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
their ID names are added to the edge list in a column called "component".
```

The graph command has the option to recover components (technical multiplets) into smaller

> components using community detection to find and remove problematic edges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
components using community detection to find and remove problematic edges
```

> (See `--multiplet_recovery`). The information to keep track of the original and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(see `--multiplet_recovery`). These new component IDs are then stored in the "component" column. The information to keep track of the original and
```

newly recovered components are stored in a file (components_recovered.csv).
This file is not included in the output folder by default, but can be included by passing `--save_recovered_components`.

> The edgelist is intermediate and by default not placed in the output folder kept in the final files delivered to users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The edgelist is intermediate and by default not placed in the output folder with the final files delivered to users.
```

</details>

### Cell-calling, filtering, and annotation

This step uses the `pixelator single-cell annotate` command.

> The annotate command takes as input the edge list file generated in the graph command. It parses, and filters the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The annotate command takes as input the molecule list file generated in the graph command. It parses, and filters the
```

> edgelist to find putative cells, and it will generate a PXL file containing the edgelist, and an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
molecules grouped by "component" ID to find putative cells, and it will generate a PXL file containing the edges of the graphs in an edgelist, and an
```

(AnnData object)[https://anndata.readthedocs.io/en/latest/] as well as some useful metadata.

Some summary statistics before filtering are stored in `raw_components_metrics.csv.gz`.
This file is not included in the output folder by default, but can be included by passing `--save_raw_component_metrics`.

By default, the PXL file after annotate will not be saved to the results directory unless `--skip_analysis` and `--skip_layout` is passed.
Set `--save_annotate_dataset` to include these files.

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `pixelator`

  - `annotate`

>     - `<sample-id>.annotate.dataset.pxl`: The procesed PXL dataset,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `<sample-id>.annotate.dataset.pxl`: The annotated PXL dataset,
```

    - `<sample-id>.meta.json`: Command invocation metadata.
    - `<sample-id>.raw_components_metrics.csv.gz`
    - `<sample-id>.report.json`: Statistics for the analysis step.
  - `logs`
    - `<sample-id>.pixelator-annotate.log`: pixelator log output.
    </details>

### Downstream analysis

This step uses the `pixelator single-cell analysis` command.

> Downstream analysis is performed on the `pxl` file generated by the previous stage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Downstream analyses are performed on the PXL file generated by the previous stage.
```

> The results of the analysis are added to the pxl file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The results of the analysis are added to the PXL file produced in this stage.
```

</details>

### Generate reports

This step uses the `pixelator single-cell report` command.
This step will collect metrics and outputs generated by previous stages
and generate a report in HTML format for each sample.

This step can be skipped using the `--skip_report` option.

> More information on the report can be found in the [pixelator documentation](https://software.pixelgen.com/pixelator/outputs/web-report/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More information on the report can be found in the [pixelator documentation](https://software.pixelgen.com/pixelator/outputs/qc-report/)
```

- `pipeline_info/`
  - Reports generated by Nextflow: `execution_report.html`, `execution_timeline.html`, `execution_trace.txt` and `pipeline_dag.dot`/`pipeline_dag.svg`.
  - Reports generated by the pipeline: `pipeline_report.html`, `pipeline_report.txt` and `software_versions.yml`. The `pipeline_report*` files will only be present if the `--email` / `--email_on_fail` parameter's are used when running the pipeline.
  - Metadata file with software versions, environment information and pipeline configuration for debugging: `metadata.json`
  - Parameters used by the pipeline run: `params.json`.

</details>

[Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html) provides excellent functionality for generating various reports relevant to the running and execution of the pipeline. This will allow you to troubleshoot errors with the running of the pipeline, and also provide you with other information such as launch commands, run times and resource usage.

## Output directory structure

> With default parameters, the pixelator pipeline output directory will only include the most "complete" PXL file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With default parameters, the pixelator pipeline output directory will only include the latest PXL file
```

> generated by the pipeline and an interactive HTML report per sample.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
generated by the pipeline (with the most "complete" information) and an interactive HTML report per sample.
```

The PXL dataset files can be from either the `annotate`, `analysis` or `layout` step.

With default parameters, the `<sample-id>.layout.datasets.pxl` will be copied to the output directory.
If the `layout` stage is skipped (using `--skip_layout`) the `<sample-id>.analysis.datasets.pxl` files will be included and
if the `analysis` stage is skipped (using `--skip_analysis`) the `<sample-id>.annotate.datasets.pxl` will be copied.

Various flags are available to store intermediate files and are described in the input parameter documentation. Alternatively, you can keep all intermediate files using `--save_all`.

Below is an example output structure for a pipeline run using the default settings.

- `pipeline_info/`
- `pixelator/`

  - `logs/`

    - `<sample-id>/`:
      - `*.log`

>   - `pbmcs_unstimulated.layout.dataset.pxl`

Reviewer: Will we keep the `layout`tag on all these samples or that will be stripped?

Author: We are publishing the dataset to the outdir with either the annotate, analysis or layout tag present in the filename depending on what the last step of the pipeline was. I think it is important to keep those to be able to quickly see what information will be present in the pxl files.

Reviewer: Ok, I agree.
